You might have noticed that when using collaborative filtering,
we still had a lot of users who are left without any recommendations.
If you're just starting out with building out your recommendation engine,
you might not have any users or you might not have very many.
In this case, it might be really difficult or even impossible to find similar users.
So, how can we make recommendations when we don't have users to compare to one another?
In these cases, we can use content-based recommendation methods.
Imagine you find out that a customer purchased a bike.
I have a few guesses of items you might like.
You might also need a bike helmet,
or a bike tire pump,
or a bike light, or a bike reflectors,
or other biking related items.
Depending on the types of items you're recommending,
finding similar items could be based on the name of the item,
like with these bike related items.
Or if we're shopping for clothing,
we might recommend clothing that looks similar.
If we're recommending movies,
we might recommend movies in the same genre.
Using this type of information is called content-based recommendations.
Once you start gaining additional users,
it's often useful to use a blend of many recommendation techniques.
But with limited users,
content-based recommenders often come in handy.